##### Module 1: Introduction to CSS and Bootstrap #####
Objective: Introduce the fundamental concepts of CSS and Bootstrap, emphasizing their importance in creating responsive, visually appealing websites.

--- CSS Basics ---
What is CSS?
CSS, or Cascading Style Sheets, is a language used to style the appearance of content on web pages. It allows designers and developers to specify how web pages should look in 
terms of layout, colors, fonts, and more. CSS is used in conjunction with HTML, which structures the content on a page, by defining the visual style of the HTML elements.

CSS Syntax:
CSS is written in a specific syntax that involves selectors and declarations:
Selectors are the names given to elements in HTML documents that you want to style. A selector targets the HTML element(s) and applies styles to them.
Declarations are blocks of code that define how the selected elements should be styled. Each declaration consists of a property and a value, separated by a colon (:) and 
concluded with a semicolon (;). The property is the aspect of the element you want to change (like color, width, font size), and the value is what you want to change it to.
Example:

p {
    color: red;
    font-size: 16px;
}
In this example, p is the selector targeting all <p> (paragraph) elements, and the declarations are setting the text color to red and the font size to 16 pixels.

CSS Integration:
CSS can be integrated into HTML documents in three main ways.

1. Inline CSS:
Directly places the CSS rules within an HTML element using the style attribute.
Example:
<p style="color: red; font-size: 16px;">This is a red paragraph.</p>
Use case: Quick one-time styles that do not need to be reused.

2. Internal CSS:
Includes CSS rules within a <style> tag typically placed in the <head> section of the HTML document.
Example:
<style>
p {
    color: red;
    font-size: 16px;
}
</style>
Use case: Styles specific to a single HTML document.

3. External CSS:
Involves linking to an external CSS file, which allows CSS to be reused across multiple HTML pages.
Example:
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css">
Use case: Maintaining consistency and reducing redundancy in styling across multiple pages.

Each method of integration has its specific uses depending on the scope of the project and how widely styles need to be applied across a website.

--- Introduction to Bootstrap ---
What is Bootstrap?
Bootstrap is a free and open-source front-end framework designed to help developers create responsive and mobile-first websites quickly and efficiently. It provides a collection 
of pre-styled components and powerful plugins built on HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Bootstrap's components include forms, buttons, navigation bars, modals, and much more, all of 
which can be easily customized to fit the design needs of almost any web project.

Bootstrap Grid System:
The Bootstrap grid system is a flexible structure that allows you to create complex layouts through a series of containers, rows, and columns. Here’s how it works:

- Containers: Serve as the most basic layout element in Bootstrap and are required when using the default grid system. Containers can be either fixed-width (container) or 
full-width (container-fluid).
- Rows: Act as wrappers for columns and are used to group them horizontally. All columns must be placed inside a row.
- Columns: Used to create horizontal divisions of the space inside a row. Each column’s width is defined using scaleable fractions (e.g., one of twelve parts of the entire row).

The grid system uses a series of classes like col-md-4, which means the column spans 4 of the 12 possible columns in the grid at medium screen sizes and above. This allows the 
layout to adjust automatically to different screen sizes.

Responsive Utilities:
Bootstrap includes responsive utility classes that make it easy to show or hide elements based on the screen size. Classes like .visible-xs, .hidden-md, etc., are used to control the visibility of elements for different devices, ensuring that the layout adapts appropriately to mobile phones, tablets, and desktops.

Linking Bootstrap:
Bootstrap can be included in your project in two main ways:

Using CDN (Content Delivery Network):
To use Bootstrap from a CDN, simply add a link to the Bootstrap CSS and JS files in your HTML's <head> section. This method allows you to start using Bootstrap immediately without hosting the files yourself.
Example:

<!-- Bootstrap CSS -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/4.3.1/css/bootstrap.min.css">
<!-- Bootstrap JS and Popper.js -->
<script src="https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/4.3.1/js/bootstrap.bundle.min.js"></script>

Resources:
https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/learn-css/ 
https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/getting-started/introduction/












##### Module 2: Mastering Bootstrap Components #####
Objective: Provide detailed training on utilizing Bootstrap’s ready-made components to enhance user interface design efficiently.

Contents:
Using Bootstrap Grid:
Layout Design – Creating responsive layouts with Bootstrap’s grid, understanding breakpoints.
Column Wrapping – How to manage multiple columns within a single row.
Bootstrap Components:
Modals and Alerts – Step-by-step guide to implement Bootstrap modals for dialogs and alerts for feedback.
Forms and Buttons – Instructions on creating forms with validation and styling buttons.
Bootstrap Utilities:
Spacing – Using margin and padding classes to adjust the spacing.
Display Property – Controlling visibility and responsiveness of elements.
Activities:
Hands-on project to create a responsive landing page using the Bootstrap grid.
Exercise to integrate modals and alerts into an existing webpage.



Module 3: Customizing CSS
Objective: Enable staff to tailor Bootstrap themes with custom CSS, ensuring brand consistency across web designs.

Contents:
CSS Precedence:
Specificity and Importance – How to ensure custom styles override Bootstrap defaults.
Selector Strategy – Choosing effective selectors to minimize conflicts and maintain style sheet manageability.
Media Queries:
Responsive Design – Using media queries to apply different styles for different devices.
Breakpoints and Conditions – Customizing breakpoints beyond Bootstrap’s defaults.
Advanced Selectors:
Pseudo-classes and Attributes – Utilizing pseudo-classes like :hover, :focus and attribute selectors for precise styling.
Activities:
Code challenge to style a multi-section form using advanced CSS selectors.
Interactive exercise to apply media queries to an existing project for enhanced responsiveness.



Module 4: Integrating CSS with Bootstrap
Objective: Demonstrate advanced techniques for blending custom CSS with Bootstrap to create unique, cohesive web experiences.

Contents:
Theme Customization:
Modifying Colors and Fonts – Techniques to customize Bootstrap's color schemes and typography to match company branding.
Component Customization – How to tailor Bootstrap components like navbars and cards to fit design needs.
Responsiveness Best Practices:
Flexible Images and Grids – Ensuring that images and layout grids adapt smoothly across devices.
Accessibility Considerations – Implementing design choices that ensure the website is accessible to all users.
Performance Optimization:
Minifying CSS – Tools and techniques for reducing CSS file size for faster load times.
Using CSS Preprocessors – Introduction to Sass or LESS for more dynamic stylesheet writing.
Activities:
Workshop to redesign a section of the website with full customization of Bootstrap components.
Performance optimization session to compare the load times before and after CSS minification.
Module 5: Practical Application and Maintenance
Objective: Apply the learned skills to real-world scenarios, focusing on maintaining the website’s aesthetic and functional standards.

Contents:
Version Control:
Git Basics – Introduction to using Git for version control, including common commands and workflows.
Collaborative Development – Best practices for using Git in a team environment to manage code changes effectively.
Debugging and Troubleshooting:
Common CSS Issues – Identifying and resolving frequent CSS styling conflicts and issues.
JavaScript Integration Troubles – Diagnosing and fixing issues where JavaScript and CSS interact.
Documentation Standards:
Style Guide Maintenance – How to update and maintain style guides as design standards evolve.
Change Logging – Keeping detailed logs of changes for troubleshooting and historical purposes.
Activities:
Real-world task to update the company contact page using Git for version control.
Group project to implement a new feature, documenting the development process.
Assessment and Feedback:

Each module concludes with a practical test to apply the concepts learned.
Participants are encouraged to provide feedback through structured forms to assess the training effectiveness and identify areas for improvement.
